-: Welcome back.
In this lecture we are going
to work on rollout new deployments
for our notification service using three options
available in Kubernetes.
One is set image option, kubectl edit,
and then update manifest, and then deploy.
So in any of the three ways you can upgrade your application
version from 1.0.0 to 2.0.0.
So before going there,
so we'll go to our notification service
and the current running version you can see is V1, right?
So let me go here and then let's do this now, right?
Let's go to step 14,
rollout new deployment using set image option.
So we can say kubectl set image
for the deployment notification microservice.
You can say that notification hyphen service
is equal to, right?
So notification hyphen service
is nothing but your respective container name.
So if you go to your visual studio code here
and then go to kube manifest
and then go to notification microservice deployment.
See this is the name.
So for the deployment notification microservice
this is the name, right?
And for the container notification hyphen service container,
the image it need to set is 2.0.0.
So currently it using 1.0.0.
So I want to use 2.0.0
and then record this statement, okay?
So that's what it is saying.
So let me copy this, okay?
And then paste it here.
And now, automatically kube ctl get pods.
We should see that old notification microservice
should be terminating and the new one should be creating.
Okay, so now it got created, so four seconds.
So let's, if you want we can verify the logs,
but we'll go here and then access
the tendency notification service, right?
So shift. Ah, refreshed it, okay?
So you can see I have refreshed it
and notification service V2 version is deployed
just with kubectl set image option, right?
So whatever we have done with set image for that deployment.
So this is one rollout option we have
and default is rolling update.
So obviously you have 10 replicas, up to 10 replicas.
So it'll be like default rolling update.
So we'll not have any downtime, okay?
And if you want, we can have the settings also there.
How much should be taken
in the rolling update model, 25% of 10 parts,
or four parts or whatever we want, we can configure.
But putting that aside,
so now we are seeing the V2 version here.
So, now we can go back here.
So, you can see rollout status.
You can see with this command.
So why about now already it's only one pod,
it's already rolled out.
So we'll not see anything here with this, right?
Successfully rolled out, you can say that's all, okay?
And you can see the new replica set will be created
with kubectl get RS, right?
So this is the new replica created
for this respect, new 2.0 rollout, okay?
And one important thing is this entire section
related to rollouts,
we have seen in our foundation section,
which is fundamental section,
but now we are completely dealing with microservices.
I want to add it as an extra option to see you one more time
but if you already gone through the fundamental section
and then if you are aware of these commands,
you can ignore this section, okay?
So if you want, you can see the rollout history also here
because we said record is equal to true.
So now the rollout history is what revision two
is nothing but 2.0.0 version, okay?
And if you want to roll back to previous version
so you can say kubectl rollout
undo that respect to deployment, okay?
So if you do that, then it is going to go back
to the older version.
So, now if you see kubectl get pods, right?
So now the one new one, whatever it has created
is terminate and then it is going to again
get the V1 version for us,
notification V1 version for us.
So if you access now the the notification health status.
So let me refresh this and we should get V1 now.
Good.
So now we have successfully upgraded to new version
means like went to the new version
and then again roll back to the new version here, okay?
In step 15 again we are going
to do the rollout new deployment using kubectl edit, okay?
So kubectl edit will using kubectl edit
we can edit the deployment
and then update the respect to image path directly.
So, let me show you that, okay?
So we are doing the step 15 here.
So I'll paste it, kubectl edit, deployment
and then notification microservice.
So I can go here, I can go down
and then go up from here.
So from down if you catch it,
it is easy, right?
It's a poor definition.
Okay?
So now let it up,
let it up, where is it?
Come down, come down.
So I need to search for 1.0.0.
We got it here, okay?
So here is the thing.
So images, start simplified kube notification
microservice to 1.0.0.
So with edit we can change it to 2.0.0
and then save it.
And if we see this kubectl get parts
so it should get getting terminated
and then new one is getting created.
And you can even see with the rollout deployments
our replica sets are all these comments
are common for us, right?
So only thing is we can directly
verify our application right?
So now it should be again V2.
So let me come here and then refresh it.
It is V2, that's the thing.
So, now what we will do is like if you want
to again roll back, you can use rollout,
undo deployment, okay?
So, I'll say undo and I'll verify get pods.
It's terminating and the new one is getting created
and I'll go back here and it should be V1 now.
Good, that's good.
So we have rolled back.
And one more way is like you can go back to your manifest
here, right?
So notification manifest
and then change it to 2.0
and then say kubectl apply-hyphen cube manifest.
And then this also should change us to version 2.0, right?
So let's kubectl and then if you say get pods,
now it's terminating and then creating new one.
And if you go here and if you refresh here
it should be V2.
And again if you want to roll back,
again you change it to 1.0.0
and then say kubtctl apply-F kube manifest.
And then kubectl get pods, right?
So it is terminating and then creating a new one.
So let me refresh here and then it should be.
So that's about the entire deployment strategies,
means like roll out new deployment
with the three options we have
which is a setting image option
or kubectl edit or update manifest and then deploy.
So finally we can go ahead and then clean up our stuff.
Okay?
So let me see here.
kubectl delete-F, right?
And then kube manifest.
And then whatever we have created so far,
all will get deleted.
That's about it.
So this complete server microservices deployment
on AWS EKS with user management microservice
and then notification microservice.
So, I'll see you in the next lecture.
Until then, bye bye.
Thank you.